>> [MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: We added a strict
mode to the language because there are a
lot of things in the language that were
clearly wrong that we wanted to repair.
But they would be breaking changes.
And so
we needed to have some kind of opt in, so
you'd say yes, I'm prepared for
the breakage this might cause.
Because I want to be using
the better language.
The difficulty we had
in specifying this was,
how do you say I want strict mode
without introducing new syntax?
Because we wanted older browsers to simply
ignore the fact that we're in strict mode
and work the way they always have.
So we spent a lot of time trying
to figure out how to do that, and
eventually, we came up
with a terrible hack.
We used the useless expression
statement that I was
complaining about earlier
to specify the pragma.
So if the first statement of a function or
a file is the string,
use strict ;, that puts that file or
that function into strict mode.
And on older browsers, it's simply ignored
and does nothing, so that works out.
We've got the file form,
which is good if you're on Node.
If you're on a browser, I recommend
you only use the function form.
>> Douglas Crockford: The reason for
that is Steve Souders will tell you to
concatenate all of your files together.
And that means that all of your files will
have the same strictness as the first
file, and
that could be bad in any number of ways.
So in browsers, we recommend
you only use the function form.
Strict mode adds a number
of new reserved words.
So far,
I'm only aware of let and yield being
used in the next edition of the language.
The others may or
may not be used in other editions.
This is the list of things that
are provided by strict mode.
Unfortunately, it's a boring list.
So I'm just gonna read the boring list.
There are no more implied global
variables within functions.
This was a huge design
error in JavaScript.
So now if you forget to declare
a variable in a function,
it's gonna be a syntax error.
It's not going to default
to global variables.
So that's good.
This is no longer bound to the global
object by the function form.
So if you call a method as a function,
this will get bound to undefined and
not the global object.
That turned out to be really important for
security.
The call and apply methods no longer
default to the global object.
So it used to be if you called the apply
method and passed in null or undefined,
meaning you don't want this to get bound
to anything, JavaScript will go, you can't
mean that, you probably mean the global
object and would do that substitution.
It doesn't do that anymore.
We got rid of the with statement.
If you try to assign to something
which is not writeable,
you will now throw an exception.
It used to fail silently,
which is really bad for integrity.
Because the code may have made a change,
assuming that it succeeded in making
the change, and if the change failed and
it isn't notified,
then it could become inconsistent.
We did a similar thing with deleting
non-configurable properties.
We put restrictions on eval.
I haven't talked at all this week
about eval, and I'm not going to.
Eval is the most misused feature of the
language, and I don't recommend using it.
And the implementation of it in the old
language was really quite horrible,
that it gave extreme powers to
whoever provided a string to it.
And so we put some limits on eval.
The thing I complained about with
arguments getting bound strangely to
the parameters, that's been fixed.
We got rid of arguments.caller and
arguments.callee.
And getting rid of those was surprisingly
difficult because arguments.caller had
never been in the standard.
So we couldn't simply go to a line
of the standard and delete it.
Instead, we had to add caller to
the language and then poison it.
We got rid of octal literals because we
found that they are confusing to humans.
Most people in school learned that
a leading zero in front of a number
is not significant.
But JavaScript said it was and
turned you into base eight.
So we fixed that, and that got us a lot
of complaints from the Node community.
Apparently that the Node guys
are still using octal literals for
setting file permissions.
I didn't know anybody was still
doing that, but they are.
So yes, 6 added octal back in,
but in a slightly less awful way.
And then duplicate names
in an object literal or
function parameters are now syntax error.
So, if you say function food a comma a,
it will now recognize that
the second a is an error.
We fixed the new operator, so
forgetting to use the new prefix
in strict mode will now throw an exception
and not silently clobber global variables.
So that's good.
There are a few things that we know
did break because of strict mode.
For example, if you call
addEventListener in a browser intending
to add an event to the window object, that
accidentally worked in the old language.
And the reason it accidentally
worked was in the browser,
the window object is the global object.
They just happen to be the same thing.
And when you call a function as
a function, this gets bound to the global
object, which happens to be
the window object, so it worked.
It was never intended to work,
it just accidentally worked.
So now in strict mode,
you have to be explicit.
If you want to add an event listener to
the window, you have to say window dot.
There is nothing in the language that will
tell you if you are in strict mode or
if strict mode is available, but you can
write either of these little functions,
and they will tell you exactly
what you need to know.
The design of strict mode was informed
by JSLint, they're not entirely the same
because JSLint has forced
to do a static analysis and
strict mode can do some
things dynamically.
But if you're using JSLint,
and you should,
then you should be very
happy with strict mode.
A lot of the work that we did was
motivated by the problems of mashups.
A mashup is where you've got code
representing two parties that wants to
work together in the same page for
the benefit of the user without one
being able to corrupt the other, and that
turns out to be a very difficult problem.
So we don't have a complete
solution to that,
but we are on the road to solving that.
So the design of the mashup solutions
that we put into the language
were derived from Google's Caja
project and my own ADsafe project.
And by fixing things,
like the binding of this and
some of the other problems,
we can now get security solutions,
which provide all the benefits of both
of these, which should be a good thing.
So any questions about any
of the stuff about ES5?
Or anything about anything today, or
anything at all?
>> Douglas Crockford: Just
in the discussion, we're all talking
about ES6 and stuff like that, but.
We'll get to ES6 on the third day.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, that's what the, yeah.
You had that in the schedule, so.
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay,
anybody else?
>> Speaker 3: When you talked about how
pervasive certain constructs
are out in the web and
figure out how much it break and
stuff like that,
how did you gather those metrics?
>> Douglas Crockford: It's really hard,
some of it was just,
I think somebody did something.
I heard about a guy who did something.
A lot of it was that,
some of it was mining Google code.
Microsoft also had an extensive database
of code, and we would mine against that.
I'm not confident how effective our
tools were in all cases because some of
the patterns we're looking for
are really complex.
And some code is so badly written that you
might not necessarily be able to recognize
the patterns.
But we tried as much as was possible,
given the technology available to match
stuff against what the web was doing.